adding metadata create delete info (#8616)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/snippets/_generate-metadata.md

<Constant name="explorer" /> uses the metadata provided by the [Discovery API](/docs/dbt-cloud-apis/discovery-api) to display the details about [the state of your dbt project](/docs/dbt-cloud-apis/project-state). The metadata that's available depends on the [deployment environment](/docs/deploy/deploy-environments) you've designated as _production_ or _staging_ in your <Constant name="cloud" /> project.

> <Constant name="explorer" /> also allows you to ingest external metadata from your data warehouse, giving you visibility into non-dbt resources in <Constant name="explorer" />.

Reviewer: Ignore this if it is too nitpicky 😄 

```suggestion
<Constant name="explorer" /> also allows you to ingest metadata from your data warehouse, giving you visibility into external resources in <Constant name="explorer" />.
```

## dbt metadata

If you're using a [hybrid project setup](/docs/deploy/hybrid-setup) and uploading artifacts from dbt Core, make sure to follow the [setup instructions](/docs/deploy/hybrid-setup#connect-project-in-dbt-cloud) to connect your project in <Constant name="cloud" />. This enables <Constant name="explorer" /> to access and display your metadata correctly.

> - To ensure all metadata is available in <Constant name="explorer" />, run `dbt build` and `dbt docs generate` as part of your job in your production or staging environment. Running those two commands ensures all relevant metadata (like lineage, test results, documentation, and more) is available in <Constant name="explorer" />.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- To ensure all metadata is available in <Constant name="explorer" />, run `dbt build` and `dbt docs generate` as part of your job in your production or staging environment. Running these two commands ensures all relevant metadata (like lineage, test results, documentation, and more) is available in <Constant name="explorer" />.
```

- <Constant name="explorer" /> automatically retrieves the metadata updates after each job run in the production or staging deployment environment so it always has the latest results for your project. This includes deploy and merge jobs.
    - Note that CI jobs don't update <Constant name="explorer" />. This is because they don't reflect the production state and don't provide the necessary metadata updates.
- To view a resource and its metadata, you must define the resource in your project and run a job in the production or staging environment.
- The resulting metadata depends on the [commands](/docs/deploy/job-commands) executed by the jobs.

### When dbt creates model metadata

> A model appears in <Constant name="explorer" /> when both of the following conditions are met:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
dbt populates a model's metadata in <Constant name="explorer" /> when both of the following conditions are met:
```

- The model is defined in your dbt project (it exists in the manifest).

> - The model is included in the run_results of a build, run, or clone command.

Reviewer: Does it need to be a successful command? Whether or not it does, I think we should spell it out either way

...after a succesful command
or whether or not the command succeeds

Author: Checking with the developer!

Author: added "regardless of the run's success or failure status"

### When dbt removes model metadata

> Model metadata is removed from <Constant name="explorer" /> in these two cases:

Reviewer: adding some active voice
```suggestion
dbt removes a model's metadata from <Constant name="explorer" /> in these two cases:
```

- **Model removed from project**: If a model is deleted from your dbt project (and therefore no longer exists in the manifest), its metadata is removed after a subsequent job run in which the model is no longer included.

> - **Environment inactivity**: If an environment has had no job runs in the past 3 months, all metadata for that environment is purged. To prevent this, schedule jobs to run at least once every 3 months.

Reviewer: Is it three calendar months or 90 days? If it's the latter, it might be helpful to say 90 days instead

Author: Leaving as is because it's calendar months.

| Snapshot details | [dbt snapshot](/reference/commands/snapshot) or [dbt build](/reference/commands/build) within a job in the environment |
| Columns and statistics for models, sources, and snapshots| [dbt docs generate](/reference/commands/cmd-docs) within [a job](/docs/explore/build-and-view-your-docs) in the environment |
| Data test results | [dbt test](/reference/commands/test) or [dbt build](/reference/commands/build) within a job in the environment |
| Unit test results | [dbt test](/reference/commands/test) or [dbt build](/reference/commands/build) within a job in the environment. Unit tests are typically run in development or CI environments, so their results rarely appear in production <Constant name="explorer" />. |
| Source freshness results | [dbt source freshness](/reference/commands/source#dbt-source-freshness) within a job in the environment |
| Snapshot details | [dbt snapshot](/reference/commands/snapshot) or [dbt build](/reference/commands/build) within a job in the environment |
| Seed details | [dbt seed](/reference/commands/seed) or [dbt build](/reference/commands/build) within a job in the environment |

> Richer and more timely metadata will become available as <Constant name="cloud" /> evolves.

Author: This doesn't seem helpful
